Update Precourse Lists Lesson (#109)
Ada-Developers-Academy/ada-precourse-v2: intro-to-python/lists.md

| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| data structure| A collection of data that follows a set of rules for modifying and accessing the data.  Python provides four built in data structures, _lists_, _dictionaries_, _tuples_ and _sets_.  This curriculum will cover lists and dictionaries.     | Collection      | "We organize our collection of students into a list data structure" |
| list      | A data structure consisting of a collection of elements (values or variables), each identified by at least one array index or key | Array | "We loop through the list and print out each value"    |
| index      |The position of an element in a _sequence type_, that is, a type that stores data in order.  In Python, strings and lists are examples of sequence types.  In Python indices start at 0. | Key | "We get the 1st element at index 0."    |
| module      | A file containing Python code.  | Library | "This module has functions for calculating taxes."    |

> | package      | A collection of modules distributed together  | N/A | "We can add the wonderwords package to our project and use it to get random words."    |

Author: Looks like Python eggs are no longer being used (https://stackoverflow.com/a/70019592) so I replaced the "Egg" synonym with "N/A"

| index      |The position of an element in a _sequence type_, that is, a type that stores data in order.  In Python, strings and lists are examples of sequence types.  In Python indices start at 0. | Key | "We get the 1st element at index 0."    |
| module      | A file containing Python code.  | Library | "This module has functions for calculating taxes."    |
| package      | A collection of modules distributed together  | N/A | "We can add the wonderwords package to our project and use it to get random words."    |

Before we get into some practice problems, let's look at some Python syntax related to lists. The snippet below shows how we can create an empty list, create a list with values in it, add a value to a list with the `append` method, access elements by their indices using square brackets, and loop through the elements. 

```python
# creating a new empty list:
new_empty_list = []

# creating a new list with values in it
flavors = ["lemon", "vanilla", "chocolate"]

# adding an element to a list:
flavors.append("caramel")

> # new_list_populated_with_strings = ["lemon", "vanilla", "chocolate", "caramel"]

Author: I think what happened here was I saw this list was called `new_list_2` and decided to name it `new_list_populated_with_strings`. Then I saw the elements were flavors so I renamed it `flavors` and left line 76 accidentally. 

I think that comment is supposed to show you that the result of appending "caramel" is now a list with 4 elements when it originally had 3. 

How about:
```
# adding an element to a list:
flavors.append("caramel")
# ["lemon", "vanilla", "chocolate", "caramel"]
```

|input|output|
|--|--|
| `item = 3`<br/> `list_of_items = [1, 4, 5, 6, 2, 3, 9]`|`5`|

> | `item = "cow"`<br/> `list_of_items = ["dog", "cow", "goat", "pig"]`|`1`|

Author: The only examples of a list having a search term were lists of numbers and the function is supposed to return an integer representing an index. I updated this example so that students can see a clear example of a list with strings.

def find_index_of_item(item, list_of_items):
    default = -1

>     item_index = 0

Author: Don't think `count` really describes what the variable is so I changed it to item_index

<!--END CHALLENGE-->

> ### Nested Loops

Author: Added this section here because we don't talk about how to nest loops before asking students to do an exercise with nested loops below.

<!--END CHALLENGE-->

### Nested Loops

> We can also nest loops so that we can iterate over two lists at the same time. Nested loops means a loop is inside of another loop. For example, we could have a while loop inside a for loop or a for loop inside of a for loop. That means while we are iterating over an element in a list, we can also be iterating over another list too which will give us access to two elements at the same time. 

Author: Happy to add this example instead! Should I remove the example I initially added or were you thinknig of including both?

> We can also nest loops so that we can iterate over two lists at the same time. Nested loops means a loop is inside of another loop. For example, we could have a while loop inside a for loop or a for loop inside of a for loop. That means while we are iterating over an element in a list, we can also be iterating over another list too which will give us access to two elements at the same time. 

Reviewer: I think we could keep the initial example to show the loops in another setting, but I also think it's fine with the one example since we're asking students to practice nested loops shortly after.

The syntax for nesting loops looks like this:
```python
# outer_loop Expression:
    # inner_loop Expression:
        # statement inside inner_loop

list_of_letters = ["a", "b", "c"]
list_of_nums = [1, 2, 3]

for letter in list_of_letters:
    for num in list_of_nums:
        print(f"{letter} and {num}")

> # a and 1
> # b and 2
> # c and 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# a and 1
# a and 2
# a and 3
# b and 1
# b and 2
# b and 3
...
```

            result.append(pair)
    return result

def icecream_sundae(flavors, toppings):
    result = []
    flavor_index = 0
    topping_index = 0
    while flavor_index < len(flavors):
        topping_index = 0
        while topping_index < len(toppings):
            pair = flavors[flavor_index] + " with " + toppings[topping_index]
            result.append(pair)
            topping_index += 1
        flavor_index += 1

>     return result

Author: What do you think about me removing the third example solution from each of these exercises? I feel like using a while loop to solve each of these problems isn't the recommended approach so it feels a little weird to suggest it as a solution.

Reviewer: I both agree with you, and am hesitant because I feel like folks get really little exposure to while loops and struggle with how to make them work in different situations. 

How do you feel about keeping the while on the first one and adding something along the lines of "this isn't the most concise solution, but any time we can use a for-loop we can also use a while loop", then removing the while loops from the following examples?

Reviewer: I can't comment on them, but on lines 298 & 439 it says "Three examples of working implementations:" which should be updated to something like "two" or "some".

So far our Snowman game has used a constant as the secret word (`SNOWMAN_WORD = 'broccoli'`), but a game that always uses the same word is not a great game.  The code to generate a random English word is outside of the scope of these lessons, although it is an interesting problem and worth spending some time thinking about.  We are going to use a _package_ to come up with a random word.  We are going to use the _wonderwords_ package.  

> 1. Before we can use it in our code, we will need to install the package using the command line. We will need to navigate to the `snowman_project` directory if we're not already there. We can run `pwd` to check where we are and we should see something like `/ada/precourse/snowman_project`. Once we're in the correct directory, run the following commands one by one:

Reviewer: I would consider removing this numbering or changing them over to headings. They're separated enough and have columns that go back to full width between the numbered paragraphs, so it was a little confusing when I saw the 2. below.

> 1. Before we can use it in our code, we will need to install the package using the command line. We will need to navigate to the `snowman_project` directory if we're not already there. We can run `pwd` to check where we are and we should see something like `/ada/precourse/snowman_project`. Once we're in the correct directory, run the following commands one by one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Before we can use `wonderwords` in our code, we will need to install the package using the command line. We will need to navigate to the `snowman_project` directory if we're not already there. We can run `pwd` to check where we are and we should see something like `/ada/precourse/snowman_project`. Once we're in the correct directory, run the following commands one by one:
```

    ```console
    $ python3 -m venv venv
    $ source venv/bin/activate
    ```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
| Terminal Command | Notes |
| ------------- | ----- |
| `python3 -m venv venv` | Creates a virtual environment named `venv` for this project |
| `source venv/bin/activate` | Activates this virtual environment |
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

After running `source venv/bin/activate` to activate our virtual environment, we should now see that each line of our terminal now begins with `(venv)`. This tells us that our virtual environment named `venv` has been activated. Our terminal should now look something like this:

```console

(venv) snowman_project 

```

> At a high level, a virtual environment is an isolated space where you can work on your Python projects. We will create and use virtual environments for almost all Python projects we work on. Feel free to do your own research about virtual environments. For now, we'll focus on the implementation of our Snowman game and delve more into virtual environments later on. 

Reviewer: I feel like this would make sense in an info callout box, what do you think?

## Debugging

How do you know what your code is doing when it's generating a random word?  Use `print()` to print out the word during development.  Adding a print statement here will print the word to the terminal and make it easier to debug your code:

```python

snowman_word = r.word(
    word_min_length=SNOWMAN_MIN_WORD_LENGTH, 
    word_max_length=SNOWMAN_MAX_WORD_LENGTH)
print(snowman_word)

```

Printing the value of variables in your code is an easy way to see what's going on inside your code.  Nobody writes perfect code!  There are always bugs, and learning and practicing how to debug is a core part of learning to be a programmer.  One strategy for debugging is to start by figuring out what your code is doing, and then work on making it do what you want.  Think of yourself as a detective, and instead of focusing on what you think your code _should be_ doing, focus on figuring out exactly what it _is_ doing.  Using all kinds of print statements is a simple way to start looking inside your code as it's running and see what's happening.

### !end-callout

### Tracking User Input

> So far, all we have done with our user input is check to see if it is in our word. But if we go back to the hypothetical game of snowman with a group of children, we would want to keep track of the letters that have been guessed.  We would also not accept guesses of the same letter that have already been guessed.  

Reviewer: Another possibility:

```suggestion
So far, all we have done with our user input is check to see if it is in our word. But if we go back to the hypothetical game of snowman with multiple players, we would want to keep track of the letters that have been guessed.  We would also not accept guesses of the same letter that have already been guessed.  
```

def snowman():
    r = RandomWord()
    snowman_word = r.word(
      word_min_length=SNOWMAN_MIN_WORD_LENGTH, 
      word_max_length=SNOWMAN_MAX_WORD_LENGTH)

    print(f"debug info: {snowman_word}")
    
    # Add a new list to track correctly guessed letters
    correct_guesses_list = []
    wrong_guesses_list = []

    while len(wrong_guesses_list) < SNOWMAN_WRONG_GUESSES:
        user_input = get_letter_from_user(wrong_guesses_list)
        if user_input in snowman_word:
            print("You guessed a letter that's in the word!")
            # Add a correctly guessed letter to `correct_guesses_list`
            correct_guesses_list.append(user_input)
        else:
            print(f"The letter {user_input} is not in the word")
            wrong_guesses_list.append(user_input)

        print_snowman(len(wrong_guesses_list))
        print(f"Wrong guesses: {wrong_guesses_list}")

# Call the function run the code and test out the new changes
snowman()

```

</details>

> We've made a lot of changes to our code, execute `snowman.py` as we're coding to test out our new changes. If the code is not behaving as expected, add some debugging print statements to see what is happening. From there, try identifying which lines of code need to be updated to fix it. It's ok if you're code isn't working as described in the lesson. Reach out to Slack with your questions and to get help!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've made a lot of updates to our code, execute `snowman.py` as we're coding to test out our new changes. If the code is not behaving as expected, add some debugging print statements to see what is happening. From there, try identifying which lines of code need to be updated to fix it. It's ok if your code isn't working as described in the lesson. Reach out over Slack with your questions and to get help!
```
